Wanru Li
INFO-I423
Geoffrey Fox
Oct 19, 2020
Internet of Medical Things Applications from Watches to Toothbrushes
	An electronic toothbrush is a popular good during the current life. It’s better to use when brushing the teeth. Electronic toothbrushes are accepted by most people. Nowadays, electronic toothbrushes are also linked to the internet of medical things applications. The application can notify the user where they didn’t brush. The applications also can tell the users what inflammation they have and notify them to visit the dentist. 
	Dr. Vinati Kamani mentioned that the number of connected devices currently available is rising rapidly, widely referred to as smart devices on the market. The list of gadgets varies from smartphones to intelligent homes and there are no limitations on future implementations. In medicine, mobile systems not only revolutionize auto-health monitoring as part of the internet of medical devices but also improve healthcare by offering telehealth and remote control. You all communicate directly or indirectly with some servers hosted online via your phone or Wi-Fi router (Kamani, para 5).
He also mentioned that in the field of traditional medicine, IoMT structures have already found a foundation. The equipment has many uses in human health, from fitness-wearable to therapeutic and hospital wearables. Dentist practice will come shortly. The relation between the IoMT devices and the health-related IT system does not only help patients who use the facilities, it also promotes practitioners' lives (para 6-7).
With this knowledge endorsed, the grooming practitioners and dentists will prescribe a transition to brushing methods, brushing time, and pressure thresholds during brushing of the patient's teeth.
Analyzing the techniques of brushing is just the tip of the iceberg that IoMT powered toothbubbles can do. Advanced linked brushes that make a detailed intraoral inspection without the patient needing to visit the dentist are very soon feasible. This would be very great in situations where the patient is subject to a dentist appointment phobia and can also be seen as an alternative to regular monitoring.
Intraoral images will be sent to the server in the brush. These pictures will be processed by artificial intelligence software to look up the symptoms of crack, caries or other misnomers involving specialist treatment. In the case of any issues with the preliminary scans, both the patient and clinician would be contacted by smartphone applications and the patient would be encouraged to make an appointment at the dental clinic.
These instruments promise the preventive dentistry section a much-needed improvement, which strengthens the dentists in the preliminary stage with the potential to detect the signs of alarm until too late. Research is now underway on creating smart tooth roots with HD cameras, which is already on the pre-order stage and will connect wirelessly via Bluetooth and a wireless Internet link to the smartphone apps. The project is now in progress (para 10-13).
In the world of dentistry, the developments of intelligent technologies are just scratching the face of their genuine potential. Dental practice in the coming years will be changed by the influx of artificial intelligence algorithms, machine learning, large-scale analysis, and cloud computing.
The dental practice offers resource tracking tools, but the use of artificial intelligence improves the way you treat the job. With voice commands, you can create patient appointments and material orders. You can get an overview of all your cases on your smartphone or smartwatch with the Internet of Medical Things. There are countless possibilities, and while it might sound like a science-fiction story, research is still ongoing along the same lines.

Work Cited
Kamani, Vinati. IoMT and the Future of Dentistry. 18 Mar. 2019, www.dentalproductsreport.com/view/iomt-and-future-dentistry. 
